this is a low bar squat before we start
on the movement I want to introduce to
you the equipment that we're going to be
using to perform the movement the first
most important piece of equipment is the
footwear diana is wearing flats old shoe
it's a Converse Chuck Taylor and it's
probably my favorite type of footwear to
use for a lobe a squat provided you have
the mobility to perform this movement at
the full depth which Diana definitely
does but if you lack the mobility the
alternative is a good quality weight
lifting shoe which has a hard surface
but it has an elevated heel which will
increase your mobility for the movement
the next piece of equipment the diner is
wearing is good quality knee sleeves
this isn't going to add any kilograms to
your squat it's just going to provide
warmth for your knee joint and a lot
more comfort and longevity for your
training next piece of equipment we have
a powerlifting lever belt this is
definitely my preferred type of belt
there's other alternatives but the
powerlifting lever belt is my favorite
and last but not least in a low bar
squat due to the barbell position being
placed a little bit lower on the back a
lot of the weight can be distributed on
your arms and sometimes it might be a
bit uncomfortable for your wrists so
having a good quality wrist strap is
also a great piece of equipment for the
movement now let's start warming up now
to start the warm up doesn't matter how
strong you are I still don't want you to
be doing your warm-ups with the barbell
I'm gonna get Diana to perform ten
bodyweight squats but not a regular
squat I want to warm up her back as well
as her legs so she's gonna stand in this
what's dance and she's gonna reach down
and touch the ground and stand straight
back up again so she gets the nice squat
pattern in but bending over is gonna put
a lot of blood and warmth into her back
muscles which is still going to be
crucial for the low bar squat after ten
reps of this I like to swing the hips a
little bit so grabbing something like
the squat rack to balance your body
Dana's gonna swing her hips forwards
backwards forwards backwards side words
forwards side words forwards she's going
to swap legs and do the same on the
other leg after she performs about 10 on
each side I'm still not going to get her
to put a barbell
on her back she's now going to stand
with an upright torso angle and perform
another ten reps of bodyweight squats so
she's going to be standing in her
correct squat stance just as she would
when she's gonna be performing the top
weight squats but this time she's gonna
be looking straight ahead with their
hands on her shoulders and elbows up
parallel to the ground now we've done
warming up now you allow to touch an
empty barbell now donor's gonna approach
the bar and the rules are to grab the
barbell as close as her shoulder
mobility allows
now diana has fantastic shoulder
mobility but if you were to compare it
to someone like me I will be holding the
bar with a very wide grip that's because
I lack the shoulder mobility but I'm
still following the same rules that's
just as close as my shoulder mobility
allowance so Diana's grip is going to be
nice and close with beautiful mobile
shoulders coming under the barbell it's
a low bar squat so she's going to be
placing that barbell on the muscles of
her rear deltoids when she gets the bar
in the right position she's going to
pull her elbows back what this does is
it engages the muscles of her upper back
and it creates that shelf of her rear
deltoids for the barbell to sit on now
she's going to pull her shoulder blades
down towards her back pockets which
picks her chest up and she's going to
maintain that elbows back shoulder
blades down throughout the entire squad
taking a big breath she's going to walk
that barbell out we want small steps and
she's going to be standing in her
comfortable squat stance which is
roughly outside of hip-width for
everybody it's slightly different you've
got to find what's right for you with
her toes pointed very slightly outwards
she's going to be looking straight ahead
throughout the entire movement she's
going to take a big breath and lower
that weight under control her focus to
lower that weight is to spread the floor
what spreading the floor does is it
makes sure that she's pushing the knees
outwards in the right direction which is
in the same direction as her toes when
she focuses on spreading the floor she's
activating the right muscles of her hips
she's a deducting the hip as well as
externally rotating which is making sure
she's recruiting
the really strong and powerful glute
muscles which is going to be responsible
for lifting a very heavy weight but also
for stabilizing the body so you can
squat it nice and safely donor lowers
the weight under control she's focusing
on precisely placing that bar in line
with her mid foot throughout the entire
movement when she reaches full depth
which is as deep as her body allows
while still being able to maintain a
neutral spine
she powerfully moves that weight
straight back up to the start position
now let's start adding some weight now
we've added a little bit of weight we've
also added a little bit of equipment
we've got the power lifting belt on and
we've added the wrist wraps - same rules
apply Donna's going to grab that barbell
as close to shoulder mobility allows
she's going to come under the bar
placing the barbell on the muscles of
her rear delts pulling the elbows back
and shoulder blades down towards her
back pockets to engage all the muscles
of our upper back and ensure that her
torso is rigid throughout that entire
movement taking a big breath three steps
out feet slightly outside of hip width
toes pointed slightly outwards looking
straight ahead she's going to initiate
the movement by spreading that floor
looking straight ahead she's going to
take the movement to full depth which is
as deep as her mobility allows while
still maintaining neutral spine nice and
controlled
beautiful straight bar path which is
over her mid foot throughout the entire
movement and powerfully what's that
weight straight back up to the start
position again and that is a low bar
back squat